# Haskell Security Response Team - 2024 January–March report

The Haskell Security Response Team (SRT) is a volunteer organization
within the Haskell Foundation that is building tools and processes
to aid the entire Haskell ecosystem in assessing and responding to
security risks.  In particular, we maintain a [database][repo] of
security advisories that can serve as a data source for security
tooling.

This report details the SRT activities from January through March
2024.

The SRT is:

- Casey Mattingly
- Fraser Tweedale
- Gautier Di Folco
- Mihai Maruseac
- Tristan de Cacqueray


## How to contact the SRT

For assistance in coordinating a security response to newly
discovered, high impact vulnerabilities, contact
`security-advisories@haskell.org`.  Due to limited resources, we can
only coordinate embargoed disclosures for high impact
vulnerabilities affecting current versions of core Haskell tools and
libraries, or in other exceptional cases.

You can submit lower-impact or historical vulnerabilities to the
advisory database via a pull request to our [GitHub
repository][repo].

You can also contact the SRT about non-advisory/security-response
topics.  We prefer public communication where possible.  In most
cases, [GitHub issues][gh-new-issue] are an appropriate forum.  But
the mail address is there if no other appropriate channel exists.


## Advisory database

1 contemporary advisory (affecting 3 packages) was added to the
database during the reporting period.

1 historical advisory was added to the database during the reporting
period.

Additionally, 1 HSEC ID has been reserved for an embargoed
vulnerability that we anticipate will be published in Q2.

We urge community members to submit to the database any known
security issues, including historical issues, that are not yet
represented.


## Security risks of bundled/vendored C code in Haskell packages

[HSEC-2024-0002] was a vulnerability affecting several packages that
perform bzip2 compression or decompression.  It was introduced by
way of *bundled* (interchangable term: *vendored*) C sources.  As
demonstrated in this case, there is a risk of these bundled sources
not being updated when security issues are discovered and fixed in
the "upstream" project.

Thanks to Julian Ospald, HSEC-2024-0002 was resolved in all known
affected packages by introducing
[*bzip2-clib*](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/bzip2-clib), a
new, separate package that contains the (updated) bzip2 cbits.  The
affected packages were modified to depend on *bizp2-clib*, instead
of independently bundling the C sources.  This will also make future
updates easier.  Other packages could benefit from taking a similar
approach, especially where multiple packages currently bundle the
same upstream C library independently.

There is a clear need for better identification of libraries that
contain vendored cbits within the Haskell ecosystem—especially those
that are widely depended upon.  Issue
[#162](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/issues/162)
tracks this topic.  We welcome all community members to contribute
to the discussion.  The SRT will communicate further about this need
in the coming months.


## liblzma / xz utils backdoor

A significant attack against `sshd` via malicious code introduced
into xz/liblzma was recently discovered.  It was assigned
**CVE-2024-3094**.  Russ Cox published an excellent [timeline of the
attack][xz-timeline].  Casey analysed the Haskell ecosystem's
exposure to this risk.

The [`lzma`][hackage-lzma] package binds to the system library.  Any
Haskell projects that use this package, or systems on which the
resulting artifacts are deployed, **may be compromised if the system
package was an affected version**.  Because the issue is in the
system liblzma package, we will not public an HSEC advisory for this
issue.

Very much related to the preceding topic: the
[`lzma-clib`][hackage-lzma-clib] and
[`lzma-static`][hackage-lzma-static] packages bundle the upstream
sources.  The bundled source code is from versions prior to the
attack.  Therefore these packages are **unaffected**.

[xz-timeline]: https://research.swtch.com/xz-timeline
[hackage-lzma]: https://hackage.haskell.org/package/lzma
[hackage-lzma-clib]: https://hackage.haskell.org/package/lzma-clib
[hackage-lzma-static]: https://hackage.haskell.org/package/lzma-static


## SRT at Haskell Ecosystem Workshop and ZuriHac 2024

In early June, Gautier and Fraser (maybe Mihai too) will attend the
[Haskell Ecosystem Workshop] and [ZuriHac] in June.  Fraser will
present at the Workshop to give participants an orientation in the
technical details of our tooling, share our ideas for high-impact
integration with the advisory database, and propose new work for
improving Haskell's overall security posture.

If you are interested in the security of the Haskell ecosystem,
please consider attending the workshop and/or ZuriHac.  We look
forward to meeting and collaborating with you!


## Introducing `cabal-audit`

Thanks to the work of GitHub user **MangoIV**, we will soon merge
the `cabal-audit` program (see [PR
#148](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/pull/148)).
`cabal-audit` runs the Cabal solver on a project, looks for
vulnerabilities in the dependencies, and proposes fix versions.
Some churn should be expected as the tool matures.  We would
eventually like *cabal-install* to have native audit capabilities,
but this is a significant step that provides a foundation for
technical problem solving and UX experimentation.  Thank you for
your valuable contributions, MangoIV!


## HTML index and atom feed

In addition to our advisories being [published on
OSV.dev][osv-advs], we now generate an HTML index of our advisories,
currently hosted at https://haskell.github.io/security-advisories/.

We would like to also get it hosted somewhere more "canonical", and
improve the appearance (it is quite rough).

We also added an [atom feed][].

[osv-advs]: https://osv.dev/list?ecosystem=Hackage
[atom feed]: https://haskell.github.io/security-advisories/atom.xml


## Tooling updates

Advisories now support the optional `capec` field, for recording
[*Common Attack Pattern Enumerations and Classifications
(CAPEC)*][capec] data.  CAPEC differs from CWE in that CWE is a
classification of programming or configuration errors that give rise
to security weaknesses, CAPEC classifies known patterns of attack.

[capec]: https://capec.mitre.org/

We introduced the `hsec-sync` command, which is intended for
downstream tools to **synchronise a local cache of the advisory
content**.  It currently clones the whole `security-advisories` Git
repo, but that will soon change.  Gautier is working on an snapshot
format that we will use to distribute advisory data and `hsec-sync`
will be modified to download these snapshots instead.

Soon (certainly ahead of ZuriHac in June) we will **publish our
libraries on Hackage**.  We hope that `cvss`, `cwe` and `osv`
packages will be broadly useful, and the `hsec-core` library will be
helpful for working with Haskell security advisories.


[repo]: https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories
[gh-new-issue]: https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/issues/new/choose
[HSEC-2024-0002]: https://osv.dev/vulnerability/HSEC-2024-0002
[Haskell Ecosystem Workshop]: https://haskell.foundation/events/2024-haskell-ecosystem-workshop.html
[ZuriHac]: https://zfoh.ch/zurihac2024/
