# Haskell Security Response Team - 2024 July–October report + new members

The Haskell Security Response Team (SRT) is a volunteer organization
within the Haskell Foundation that is building tools and processes
to aid the entire Haskell ecosystem in assessing and responding to
security risks.  In particular, we maintain a [database][repo] of
security advisories that can serve as a data source for security
tooling.

This report details the SRT activities from July through October
\2024.  We extended this reporting period by one month to include
the results of our recent Call for Volunteers.

[repo]: https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories

The SRT is:

- Fraser Tweedale
- Gautier Di Folco
- Lei Zhu (new!)
- Mihai Maruseac
- Montez Fitzpatrick (new!)
- Tristan de Cacqueray


## How to contact the SRT

For assistance in coordinating a security response to newly
discovered, high impact vulnerabilities, contact
`security-advisories@haskell.org`.  Due to limited resources, we can
only coordinate embargoed disclosures for high impact
vulnerabilities affecting current versions of core Haskell tools and
libraries, or in other exceptional cases.

You can submit lower-impact or historical vulnerabilities to the
advisory database via a pull request to our [GitHub
repository][repo].

You can also contact the SRT about non-advisory/security-response
topics.  We prefer public communication where possible.  In most
cases, [GitHub issues][gh-new-issue] are an appropriate forum.  But
the mail address is there if no other appropriate channel exists.

[gh-new-issue]: https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/issues/new/choose


## Growing the SRT

Following our mid-year decision to grow the SRT, José on behalf of
the SRT published a [Call for Volunteers].  Applications closed at
the end of September, with 4 applications received.  Thank you to
all applicants!  We accepted 2 of the proposals, having in mind the
long term sustainability of the SRT as a volunteer organisation
(i.e. we should avoid burning the willing volunteers all at once!)

The new members of the SRT are:

- **Lei Zhu**, who brings experience with web security, Linux
  security, privacy regulations and threat analysis.  Lei has also
  contributed to HLS, vscode-haskell, and related projects, and
  maintains the *array* package.

- **Montez Fitzpatrick** has a breadth of cybersecurity experience
  across two decades.  As CISO of a healthcare company, GRC is
  his current focus.  He has used Haskell professionally to build
  tooling for cybersecurity tasks.

Welcome to the team!

[Call for Volunteers]: https://discourse.haskell.org/t/call-for-volunteers-haskell-security-response-team-2024/10287


## Advisory database

1 contemporary advisory was published during the reporting period.

0 historical advisories were added during the reporting period.

2 HSEC IDs (HSEC-2024-0004 and HSEC-2024-0005) **remain** reserved
for embargoed vulnerabilities, which will be published later.

Additionally, [HSEC-2024-0003] received substantive updates, because
it was discovered that the original fix was incomplete.

We ask community members to report any known security issues,
including historical issues, that are not yet included.

[HSEC-2024-0003]: https://osv.dev/vulnerability/HSEC-2024-0003


## `haskell.org` Apache security update

In early August bug hunter Divya Singh ([Dgirlwhohacks]) notified
the SRT that the version of Apache httpd serving `haskell.org` was
vulnerable to CRLF injection.  We escalated the issue to the
[Haskell Infrastructure Admins][haskell-infra], and Gershom Bazerman
promptly resolved the issue by upgrading Apache.  Thanks to Divya
for reporting, and Gershom for fixing the issue.

[Dgirlwhohacks]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/dgirlwhohacks/
[haskell-infra]: https://github.com/haskell-infra/haskell-admins


## *hackage-server* "Reporting Vulnerabilities" link

Gautier implemented a *Reporting Vulnerabilities* link on package
pages in *hackage-server* ([pull request #1292]).  The change has
been deployed on `hackage.haskell.org`.  For now it links to
`CONTRIBUTING.md` in the *haskell/security-advisories* GitHub
repository.

In the future we would like to improve the contributor experience
(e.g. a web form).  But this small change is a big improvement
because it alerts users that they *can* report security issues.

[pull request #1292]: https://github.com/haskell/hackage-server/pull/1292


## Tooling updates

- CVSS 4.0 support is stalled.  andrii (@unorsk) did significant
  initial work, and Fraser is reviewing, iterating and integrating
  it.  CVSS 4.0 is *much* more complex than previous versions, and
  parts of the specification are ambiguous.  We hope to finish the
  implementation and release updates around the end of year.

- Hécate is working on integrating security advisory data in
  *flora-server* ([pull
  request](https://github.com/flora-pm/flora-server/pull/762)).
  They engaged the SRT for review (Gautier answered the call).

- Because [Flora](https://flora.pm/) indexes Haskell packages from
  namespaces beyond Hackage (e.g. Cardano), there is an ask
  ([#240](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/issues/240))
  to extend the Advisory DB data model and tooling to support
  additional namespaces.  We have agreed on the approach but we have
  not started implementing it.

- Mihai has been following the work by Janus Troelsen to add Haskell
  support to [Renovate](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate), an
  automated dependency update tool.
  - [Feature request](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/issues/8187)
  - [PVP versioning module discussion](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/discussions/31663)
  - [PVP versioning scheme pull request (open)](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/pull/32298)
