# Haskell Security Response Team - 2025 April–June report

The Haskell Security Response Team (SRT) is a volunteer organization
within the Haskell Foundation that is building tools and processes
to aid the entire Haskell ecosystem in assessing and responding to
security risks.  In particular, we maintain a [database][repo] of
security advisories that can serve as a data source for security
tooling.

This report details the SRT activities for April–June 2025.

[repo]: https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories

The SRT is:

- Fraser Tweedale
- Gautier Di Folco
- Lei Zhu
- Mihai Maruseac
- Montez Fitzpatrick
- Tristan de Cacqueray


## How to contact the SRT

For assistance in coordinating a security response to newly
discovered, high impact vulnerabilities, contact
`security-advisories@haskell.org`.  Due to limited resources, we can
only coordinate embargoed disclosures for high impact
vulnerabilities affecting current versions of core Haskell tools and
libraries, or in other exceptional cases.

You can submit lower-impact or historical vulnerabilities to the
advisory database via a pull request to our [GitHub
repository][repo].

You can also contact the SRT about non-advisory/security-response
topics.  We prefer public communication where possible.  In most
cases, [GitHub issues][gh-new-issue] are an appropriate forum.  But
the mail address is there if no other appropriate channel exists.

[gh-new-issue]: https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/issues/new/choose


## ZuriHac trip report

Members of the team met in person at ZuriHac. We discussed handling
package namespaces to support external registries as part of the
advisories we manage (see [issue#240][issue-240]). With the help of
other attendees, we re-discovered a dependency confusion
vulnerability in older versions of `cabal-install` (see
[HSEC-2025-0005]).

The team also discussed long term project ideas to improve the
ecosystem security.  We have a few lists scattered in our meeting
notes and we'll collect the ideas in a top level file to be shared
with the community.

We would like to thank the ZuriHac organizers for the opportunity to
meet with the other members of the ecosystem.

[issue-240]: https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/issues/240
[HSEC-2025-0005]: https://osv.dev/vulnerability/HSEC-2025-0005


## Advisory database

1 contemporary advisory and no historical advisories were published
during the reporting period.

2 HSEC IDs (HSEC-2024-0004 and HSEC-2024-0005) **remain** reserved
for embargoed vulnerabilities, which will be published later.

We urge community members to report any known security issues,
including historical issues, that are not yet included in the
database.

### A note on the long-term embargoes

HSEC-2024-0004 and HSEC-2024-0005 have been under embargo for a year
now.  Because of the long duration, it is appropriate for the SRT to
provide some commentary about them.

First, both of these issues affect the same component, but they are
otherwise unrelated.

Second, this is not a case of an unresponsive maintainer, but both
issues are complex to resolve and the maintainers and stakeholders
(including the SRT) are moving forward as best we can with our
limited capacity.  HSEC-2024-0004—the more severe of the two—is
already partially mitigated.  We hope (but cannot guarantee) that
the mitigations can be completed and this advisory unembargoed in
the coming months.  HSEC-2024-0005 is less severe and has been
deprioritised.  We expect it will remain under embargo for longer
still.

Finally, we want to assure the community that keeping these issues
under embargo until the mitigations are complete is the best course
of action, even though it is taking a long time.  There are no
specific mitigation steps we can reveal to the community at this
time.  If you have questions or concerns, please get in touch with
the SRT.


## OCaml Security Team

The OCaml Software Foundation is establishing the OCaml Security
Team.  They reached out to the Haskell SRT and we have shared our
experiences and ideas.  Congratulations to the OCaml community on
this important step.  We look forward to an open exchange of
information and ideas between our teams.


## Spurious web security report

During the reporting period we received a spurious report (possibly
auto-generated) about HTTP directory listing being enabled on
https://haskell.org.  We assessed the impact as negligible.

In any case, this is a good opportunity to remind our community that
Haskell project infrastructure (sites, services, etc) are within the
SRT's purview, in addition to the library ecosystem.  If you uncover
any actual or potential security issues, please contact the SRT.


## Tooling updates

- Gautier implemented a `purl` ([Package URL]) library, and updated
  the `osv` library to use this new type.  We will publish it on
  Hackage soon.

[Package URL]: https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/main/PURL-SPECIFICATION.rst
