# SRT Kickoff Meeting

## Present
 - Mihai Maruseac
 - Gautier DI FOLCO
 - Tristan de Cacqueray
 - Fraser Tweedale
 - David Thrane Christiansen
 - Casey Mattingly

## Agenda

### Communication

How will the group generally communicate? (any or all of public mailing list, closed mailing list, regular meetings, discourse.haskell.org)

Mihai: On Tensorflow, we used a private "contact the maintainers" page along with public discussions otherwise

Casey: Signal or closed mailing list is also OK, but seconds Mihai's suggestion

GitHub has a private contact info feature now for vulnerabilities. We can use this to talk to project owners.

Gautier: in OpenBSD, there's RSS feeds for vulnerabilities and fixes. This would be useful.

Fraser: this is downstream of the repo, and a good way to make the DB more useful. The first thing to work out is how we as a team operate and receive reports. Personally in favor of a mailing list, e.g. security-advisories@haskell.org ? Name not so important as long as it's discoverable and reaches the right people.

Casey: OK with it

Tristan: this list is to report vulnerabilities?

Fraser: yes. This is for things not yet publicly disclosed. It's not our responsiblity to fix the issues, but we can coordinate with maintainers and advise them, prepare advisories for a quick release when things have been made public, and prepare communication if there are any high-severity issues that might need some widespread communication from haskell.org, GHC, HF, etc. Things that we want to get in front of and be more "official" about - we can prepare this in the private channels.

Casey: To clarify: would it be pertinent to encrypt communications between ourselves?

Fraser: A private list seems sufficient

Casey: OK

Fraser: would rather not deal with the overheads and bootstrapping of GPG keys.

**Decision**:
 * We get a mailing list that the public can post to but only group members can read, for private communication when needed
 * Discourse can be used for public communication
 * The Github repo will usually receive advisories as pull requests, and most discussions can happen in the open on the PRs

Tristan: we should have a specified time limit for embargoed information so that vulnerabilities don't stick around too long

Fraser: this should be transparently documented on the description of how to contact the team (with flexibility for negotiating something else)

Mihai: Let's use the Project Zero default of 30 days

**Decision**: 30 day standard embargo unless something else is agreed

Question: how do we determine what is and is not a vulnerability?

Casey: Are we working one-on-one as individuals with review by the group, collectively, or some other way?

Fraser: We should not require an absolute majority, but a lone voice saying "it's a vulnerability" should probably be overridden. Perhaps "more than one" as a standard?

**Decision**: "More than one"

## Work assignments / team organisation

Casey: Work assignment - how do we decide who does what when? Different members of the team have different backgrounds - will it be "whoever volunteers first"? Regular call?

Tristan: To reach this quorum it will be easiest to do it via PRs or through the mailing list. How do we communicate to the user? Chat or other place to discuss among us? Just comment on the PR? An email seems like it would work for internal confidential communication.

Fraser: Anything reported in public should have public discussion. Few people should be surprised by having public discussions, and the transparency will likely be appreciated.

David: would the group like to have a regularly scheduled call? It seems that some people want it, but the email discussion resulted in that being not preferred.

Casey: calls are useful but OK without them

Fraser: Definitely not more than fortnightly, but ad-hoc is useful. Better to not require regular meetings, but to be OK to have an irregular meeting if necessary. It seems good to meet once per quarter to check in on the high-level agenda, projects, health, and trends of the team, and to make/approve a quarterly community report. Perhaps start with fortnightly/monthly and reduce as quickly as possible?

Tristan: has had success in the past with having a regular meeting, but empty agenda means it gets cancelled.

**Decision**: Start fortnightly, and cancel when no agenda. Keep this slot, and then change as needed.

### Review design

History of current design:

* Requirements:
    * GitHub asked "how to dependabot for haskell"
    * Checkbox for certifications
* Current design strongly influenced by RustSec, with some differences
    * we added CVSS score.  Motivation: enable users to express their threat model to silence "false positives"

How much of David's initial design needs revision?

Here it is: https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories



Mihai: Suggests using OSV instead:
https://osv.dev/ and schema at https://ossf.github.io/osv-schema/ . Lots of tools already exist that consume this, including Dependabot. There's also the tool Guac that he's working on and can be launched soon.

Tristan: It looks like Rustsec already works with OSV?

Mihai: There are converters for lots of formats already and we can send our own

David: Please feel free to throw away things that I wrote, I'm not at all attached to them

Fraser: We need to consider the people who are submitting reports, and make sure that it's good for them

Tristan: The RustSec-inspired format looks good for this, then.

Comments from Fraser:
* [FT] a way to represent sources other than hackage? (e.g. GHC toolchain, nix, GitHub)
* [FT] a way to annotate Cabal flags that affect the issue?

Mihai: +1 on both sources and flags. https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec allows unambiguous naming of packages from various sources.

Fraser: This seems appropriate

David: The reason for being Hackage-only in the beginning was to keep the scope of the project

Fraser: It seems at least important at this phase to be able to talk about vulnerabilities in GHC - GHC the library is on hackage, but not e.g. GHCI

Tristan: It seems unlikely that this is a real problem

Fraser: Example: there was an issue in GHCI once where it would run arbitrary code in a config file in a directory. Suggests that the team first only admit Hackage packages, but ensure that the schema doesn't tie us down to this.

Casey: pointed out the difficulties of Nix namespacing

Mihai: The PURL spec starts with an ecosystem, followed by a specific representation of the package based on the ecosystem

Casey: Thanks fot the clarification, sounds good

Tristan: We could have the rule "without a prefix, it's Hackage" and then extend it later.

Mihai: we could have a default Hackage namespace

Fraser: we can do much of this work through issues in the repo, and work from there. No need for it to be perfect in the early days - if something needs to change, we just change it. This is cheap while the database is still small.

Tristan: Should we put the aeson issue in as the first step?

Fraser: Sounds like a good example. Let's set up the infrastructure, then use the advisory via a PR to test it. We don't want to overburden the team hunting for advisories - we can solicit from the public.

Tristan: What are our deliverables? Cabal command, website, other?

Fraser: we don't have to do these things, but we want to facilitate them happening. It'd be fairly straightforward to build a Hakyll site with a feed with recent issues. So our deliverables:
 * RSS feed
 * The DB itself
 * Conversions to things like OSV, maybe (we'll evaluate on case-by-case basis)
Mostly we just curate the DB and keep it useful for downstream tooling, not to develop the tooling itself. We can do it individually but it's not the team's responsibility.

Tristan: What about a library to load the advisories?

Fraser: We will have this for our own use anyway, so we can build and maintain it.

Fraser: How do we assign identifiers to historical advisories? Year of discovery or the year in which the advisory is published?

Mihai: CVE assignment is based on the year in which the identifier is created

Fraser: This seems fine, but not good for historical data. 

Casey: Suggestion - track a separate field for "identified" rather than "reported" for metrics purposes


### Other business

None

### Action items
 - David: schedule fortnightly meetings in this slot
 - David: Contact haskell.org to create the mailing list `security-advisories@haskell.org`
 - Fraser: Will create issues based on the contents of these notes to serve as basis for assigning tasks
 - David: figure out how to get the Github permissions to happen
