# SRT 2023-07-12

[Previous meeting](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/blob/main/meeting-notes/2023-06-28.md)

## Previous Items

 * Fraser sent the announcement/Q2 report - we are officially launched!
 * Tristan: will adapt responsible disclosure instructions - merged!
     * We do need to collect emails of packagers - Mihai will probably have them by tomorrow
     * We need a process update that specifies a collaboration with maintainers where they ensure patches apply cleanly and approve everything
 * Fraser: complete OSV data export CI action
     * Works on the test instance, waiting for review from OSV: https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/tree/generated/osv-export/2023
 * Tristan: Will email mailing list about issue and affected packages Disclosure

## Switch TOML libraries?

We were sent a patch to use a different TOML parser by its author. David will get back to the author and ask him for a PR
 - Advantages: It can output TOML (nice in case of schema upgrades) and it lets us delete a little code

## GHC issue 23538
https://gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/ghc/-/issues/23538

David will ask GHC developers about an advisory

## Example roleplay (PR #56)
https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/pull/56

David submitted and got CI to pass.
Process issues:
 * CVSS didn´t  get checked, and David didn't know what to do - ask for screenshot of CVSS calculator?
 * Can we make a GitHub bot that creates a verbose table from a CVSS vector in a PR?
 * PR isn't merged
 * What about a bot that merges anything approved? We can just use an existing one.

## Action Items
 - Tristan: will create an issue about using the declaration field in the schema for tooling
 - David will ask GHC about a base advisory
 - David will ask the TOML library author for a PR
 - Mihai will get the rest of the package maintainer emails
