# SRT 2023-05-31

## Review open tickets

- **ensure OSV schema compatibility (#3)**
- register HSEC database and hackage ecosystem with OSV (#4)
- update hackage with "report security issue" feature (#7)
  - Tristan's update: there is a template, where we can add it.
- add reporting how-to to haskell.org (#8)
- example advisory (#14)

## Future tasks (no issue yet)

- **Announcements of security-advisories readiness to receive contributions**
- OSV export
- improving the tooling to "check all" / "render all"
- static site generation / CI/CD for publishing it

## Directory structure

- rustsec uses directories for `crates/packagename` and `rust/(rustdoc|std|...)`.  We can do similar.
- the CI already supports nested directory
- the only file extension examined is: `*.md` 


## Ask about cabal.project.freeze

- it gets in the way of development (for me) as I have different GHC version.
- do we need to keep it?  If so, can we mitigate the impact on developers somehow?
- Gautier: it's a way to be in sync with nix, but if the CI does not use it, I guess we can drop it
- Remove it and see if nix build breaks?

## Tooling to import older CVEs

- FT: AFAIK it's mostly in blog posts, a few CVE registrations, and tribal knowledge/folklore.  There doesn't seem to be much we could do automate that.


## Announcing the security-advisories is open for business

- ASAP, after we are happy with the schema and CI machinery
- Mailing list(s), discourse, reddit
- "official" orgs - Haskell.org, HF
    - and their twitter/fediverse accounts, ...

## ZuriHac

- Remote participation via discord server
- We should have a security-advisories channel to solicit advisories, and maybe hack on tooling too.
- https://s.surveylegend.com/-NWCiIfeZ0IjuNxEs7CL

## Other AIs

- Follow with David about google meet access
- Create issue for zurihac. If we need an impromptu meeting it's ok :)
- Create issue to discuss if/how to represent packages not on hackage (e.g. on GitHub only).
  - For example, hackage-server lives on GitHub and makes releases from a branch.  If there is an issue, how to represent introduced/fixed versions.  How does OSV deal with this scenario?