# SRT 2023-05-17

## Preview meeting's Action items

  -  David: schedule fortnightly meetings in this slot
  -  David: Contact haskell.org to create the mailing list security-advisories@haskell.org (TODO)
  -  Fraser: Will create issues based on the contents of these notes to serve as basis for assigning tasks
  -  David: figure out how to get the Github permissions to happen


## Review open GitHub tickets

- review open tickets


## License for tool source code

- Decision: BSD-3-Clause
- Advisories themselves remain under Public Domain

- Labels for issues PRs:
    - ones to add: advisory, tools, operations

## Mailing list

Question from haskell.org admin: "do you want a genuine mailman list that’s like a google group (only members can post), or an “alias list” that’s just an alias that forwards to a specified set of people?"

- Casey: prefers proper list with archive.  Broad agreement.

## GitHub automation

BTW, do we merge PRs manually, or do we use an app/bot such as mergify?

- FT: I'm for it, but it's not urgent.  Get the repo "open for business" first.

## Nix

There was a discussion about using it, but not mandating.

- Agreed.
- FT has a PR relaxing version bounds and adding CI for GHC 8.10 through 9.6.
- https://github.com/blackheaven/security-advisories/blob/tools/introduce-nix/.github/workflows/nix.yml

## The tool

- Tristan: What is the scope?
- David: The initial idea is "what RustSec does".  Please rewrite it to whatever we need.
- FT: conformance checking and conversions (e.g OSV, HTML, RSS)
