# SRT 2023-06-15

## Present
 - Gautier
 - Casey
 - Mihai
 - Fraser
 - David

## Apology from David

David apologized for not being there to let people into the meeting room. He will change the invite to a jit.si link for next time.

## How to make the announcement

- official announcement: on discourse
- David: suggests doing so after there are ~5 real advisories in the repo
- We should give a few days heads up to projects that the public might think support it but don't at the start
- Announcement should include:
    - Short-term plans (e.g. OSV integration)
    - Long-term goals (cabal audit, Stack, Hackage, etc)
- Fraser will draft on mailing list next week

## Initial content

- List of known security issues: https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/issues/32 
- We should validate that the CVSS is correct while creating the advisory, rather than taking it at face value
    - Relevant post: https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2023/06/12/nvd-damage-continued/
    - Fraser plans to work on a CVSS toolkit in Haskell
- David will create one for the TOML parser on Monday

## ZuriHac

- a lot of people were excited
- folks wondered why it was empty
- One volunteer pull request
    - FT it was a great contribution!
- David's general comments:
    - GHC workshop went well
    - Getting folks together to contribute to important core stuff is very good.
    - Future thoughts: projects for Cabal / Hackage integration.

## Other community interest
- Casey: Should we look into letting Linux distributions know about us so we can get their reports?
    - Fraser: Let's rely on the OSV tooling and hope that projects are consuming those streams. Also, most distros package only the dependencies for particular programs they want (e.g. pandoc) so we would have (a little) extra work to determine which distros are affected by an advisory.

   
# hsec-tools tooling

- support for multiple references, instead of single-valued "url" field, with the types supported by OSV (e.g. advisory, blog post, etc)
- We presently parse it as CommonMark, but we store the rendered HTML in the advisory datatype. We should instead store the CommonMark, because that's what's needed for OSV.
    - Store original text or AST or both? We should try and see.
- Can we migrate to `pandoc-types`? David didn't pick them to avoid GPL constraints, but it seems that the Pandoc integration is doable with BSD after all (the types package is BSD3). We should migrate.
- *pandoc* is GPL, so static site builder w/ Hakyll needs to be a separate package under GPL, which consumes our libraries.
- We should (not urgent) extract OSV bits to a dedicated package.
- FT plans to write a CVSS library.