# SRT 2023-06-28

## Previous Action Items

- Fraser did not yet draft the SRT announcement
- We still have several known issues yet to have the advisories submitted

## Library advisory role-play

- For multiple affected packages, where root cause is in a
  lower-level dependency:  we MUST mention the "root" package, and
  SHOULD mention dependent packages that specifically mitigate the
  issue.  So that tooling (e.g. cabal audit) can deduce that the
  issue is not occurring.

  - Upcoming "vex" standard:
    - https://blog.adolus.com/what-is-vex-and-what-does-it-have-to-do-with-sboms
    - https://cyclonedx.org/capabilities/vex/


## OSV export

- demo
- branch name
    - **decision: `generated/osv-export`**
- git "user id" (name and email address)
    - Haskell Security Response Team <security-advisories@haskell.org>
- commit message
    - currently just the timestamp
    - could include a reference to commit ID and/or commit message from the `main` branch
    - **Decision**: include source commit ID in OSV branch commit message
- Casey: what about signing the commits?
    - FT: then the private key needs to live in GitHub secrets.  Not thrilled about it.
    - sigstore?  What sort of GitHub actions integration do they have?
        - https://github.com/sigstore/gitsign
        - **Decision: investigate further**

 
## Real advisories
(redacted)

## Distributor notification

- We should have a directory of important distributors so that they can
  respond to issues.
  - Commit the checklist / playbook to the repo.
  - **Owner: Tristan**
- Who:
  - Stack, GHCup, haskell-ci?
  - Linux distros

## Advisory "official launch"

- still needs to draft announcement (David will draft and send to mailing list)
- Also need to do quarterly report, so can roll them into one announcement :)

## Action items
 - Tristan: will adapt responsible disclosure instructions
 - Fraser: complete OSV data export CI action
 - David: will draft announcement/report for group
 - Tristan: Will email mailing list about **<redacted>** issue and affected packages
