# SRT 2023-07-26

## osv.dev

- Hackage advisories are in production now
- Version enumeration for Hackage and GHC was merged
- Outstanding task: add examples to osv-schema
    - Mihai has PR in the works

## Update on handling embargoed stuff

- Gathering contact points for downstream
- Someone needs to connect the dots to send messages
- Contact list needs to be committed somewhere
    - Private contacts not be in the repo... so where?
    - Stored encrypted version in the security-advisories repo?
        - no
    - Use HF bitwarden account? (access/modify via HF admin access)
        - agreed

## What should be part of the database format?

- Repo data storage / semantics.  David has some concerns:
    - Symlinks.  Doesn't work well on Windows?
    - dates being stored in Git repo

## Audit GHCup download practices

- https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-hs/issues/858
- FT's comments: https://github.com/haskell/ghcup-hs/issues/858#issuecomment-1639300092

## Reserving HSEC IDs

- It would be useful to be able to reserve an HSEC ID
- FT will propose a way to do it (discuss it in a GH issue)

## Any other known historical (or current) issues?

- Pandoc
    - https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2023-38745
    - https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2023-35936

## Action items
 - Mihai
     - Will follow up for project contacts for embargoed issues
     - Look into GHCup #858
 - Everyone
     - Send David the email address used by your Bitwarden account
       so it can be added to HF's organization.
 - FT
     - Documentation of repo structure, including symlinks
     - Documentation about dates - that they are retieved from Git history
         - full history required, not shallow clone
     - Create GH issue to design HSEC ID reservation feature
     - re Base readFloat, update bgamari that advisory exists
     - ping pandoc folks, ask them to submit advisories
 - someone
     - Requirements/guidelines for dependency analysis tooling
         - Start writing them down, commit to our repo
