# SRT meeting 2024-05-29

Previously:
https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/blob/main/meeting-notes/2024-05-15.md

## publishing  our tools on Hackage

- Packages: cvss, osv, hsec-core, hsec-tools, hsec-sync
- FT will upload.  Just asking if there are further comments about
  version numbers, dep version constraints, etc?
- Co-maintainers - who, and what are your Hackage usernames?
  - `gdifolco`
  - `TristanCacqueray`

## SRT members, moving forward

- Casey has limited time
- We're at the 1y point, time for a new call?
- Updating the charter: Casey thinks we should expand it to be more
  involved with the tooling (within and without ecosystem)

- Remember the original motivation: supporting enterprise adoption.
  - e.g. financial industry - how well do we meet their standards?
  - Survey industry users to understand what is lacking?
  - [FT] FIPS mode, verified crypto libraries (i.e. back on to
    OpenSSL/NSS/etc)

- What is missing:
  - SBOM? ("software provenance")
  - Larger discovery effort?
  - OSS-Fuzz support?
  - OpenSSF best practices:
    https://www.bestpractices.dev/en/criteria/0 ?

- SRT has some context-switching.  Should we have separate subgroups
  for triage / tool development / etc?

- We can discuss on list over the coming days, and engage with folks
  at ZuriHac to determine the next move.  General agreement that we
  can/should grow the team.

- Retirements: Casey will step back.  (Thank you for all you've
  done!)

## YAML advisory has been rejected ([#181](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/issues/181))

- FT will ask Julian if he is satisfied with this conclusion.

## deps.dev

- FT received message from deps.dev developer at Google.  Still need
  to follow up.
