# SRT meeting 2024-05-01

Previous notes:
https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/blob/main/meeting-notes/2024-04-17.md

## CI security advice

- Mihai published the draft:
  https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/blob/main/guides/github.md
- A couple more comments to handle, then it will be published to Discourse

## Web area for SRT

- FT will work to bootstrap this.  We can publish our guides,
  reports, and general information there.

## Publishing our packages to Hackage

- FT will begin on this in the next week.
- Discussion: do we want to set up auto-publish from GitHub?
  - There is a GHA by Brandon Chinn to publish to Hackage.
  - https://github.com/fourmolu/fourmolu/blob/main/.github/workflows/release.yml
  - Does it work with subpackages?  We would need to see.
  - From supply chain security POV it's better to have an action
    than having developers make the dist and publish themselves.
  - Maybe this is a good topic for our second *guide* and/or a tool
    to validate release tarball from the sources :)
  - We will look into this after the initial package release to Hackage.

## New meeting time

- The when2meet tool does not seem to take timezones into account?
- We might need a second round / better tool :)
- FT will look for a better tool.  Or else use same tool but in UTC.

## The expanding scope of SRT

- With cabal-audit proposed for our repo, the scope has expanded.

- Advisory workload is low, so team does have capacity to own this

- FT: I see cabal-audit as a transitional effort anyway; ideally we
  do not have to own it forever and the capability can be absorbed
  into Cabal itself.

- Idea: cabal-audit lives in its own repo, not security-advisories repo
  - Prerequisite: publish our packages
  - Advantage: not "owned" by SRT, others might be more eager/willing to contribute.
  - We will have the discussion in public, with the contributor MangoIV.
