# SRT meeting 2024-04-03

Previous meeting notes:
https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/blob/main/meeting-notes/2024-03-20.md

## ZuriHac / Haskell Ecosystem Workshop

- Fraser is going
- Gautier is going
- Mihai will know on Friday if he is attending
- Tristan cannot attend

## Quarterly report

- Draft: https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/pull/180
- FT asked Mihai to contribute a section for the CI security
  recommendations.

## VINCE

- FT reached out to CERT/CC to ask for help
- `security-advisories@haskell.org` is notification-only.
- We should make individual accounts (TOTP required) and they can be
  associated with the "Haskell Programming Language" org within
  VINCE.

## GitHub Actions Runners

- The reporter was asking what the resolution was.
- Mihai will create a PR with the guidelines documentation and
  contact the repo and reporter.
- We cannot fix globally because there is not a single org with all
  the Haskell.  But we can provide the guidance and recommendations
  to the community.

## A "security" section within haskell.org

- Jose: Is there a place for collecting ecosystem-wide best
  practices? (whether for security, or more generally)
- We would like a section within haskell.org where our
  recommendations and info about the advisory DB lives.  A more
  "official" documentation about Haskell security and the SRT.
- Perhaps also the wiki.

## liblzma/xz vulnerability?

- The backdoor was inserted using binary data from test suite, and
  only during RPM/.deb builds.  Even if code was lifted and used in
  cbits, the backdoor probably would not be there.
- But we should still verify.  FT will ask Casey.

## yaml vulnerability

- Impact and exploitability vector are not clear enough to offer
  remediation advice.
- FT will create the advisory.
- We need to check if other yaml packages are affected.

## Pull requests

- [cabal audit (#148)](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/pull/148)
  - The author is keen on making changes if any more feedback
  - He is afraid of going forward with other contributions if he has to rebase
- [cabal audit osv/json (#178)](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/pull/178)

- [hsec-sync (#168)](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/pull/168) (merged)
- [hsec-tools snapshot (#179)](https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/pull/179)
    - FT: we want to avoid switching TOML library (again), if we can.
