# SRT meeting 2025-07-10

Previously:
https://github.com/haskell/security-advisories/blob/main/meeting-notes/2025-06-25.md


## Q2 report topics

- ZuriHac report (Tristan will write the section)
- 1 new advisory (a couple in early April were accounted in Q1 report)
- The web index not-vulnerability report :)
- OCaml security team shout-out (see below)


## Security work "prospectus"

Following informal conversation with Jose at ZuriHac, it is time to
pull this together.  Gather all the high-impact ideas (which are
currently scattered across meeting notes, issues, etc) into a
"prospectus" document which may help with funding decisions.


## Hackage key signing

> We’re looking for more people to take part in the hackage key signing
> ceremony. I figured it would be useful to have someone from the security
> response team be part of that trusted group. Is this something you’d be
> willing to do? It would require you to take part of the ceremony in the
> next few weeks, But it can all be done online.

FT will circle back with Jose and find out next steps.


## OCaml security team

OCSF is starting a security team.  Richard Eisenberg reached out to
FT to ask for advice.  FT will share some resources.


## Embaroged advisory process

Tristan feels our current *ad hoc* system using the mailing list
could be improved.  Tristan will investigate and make
recommendations on what we could implement to improve the processes.


## Purl library

Consensus: merge and publish without delay.  Gautier will do the
Hackage publishing.


## SRT processes documentation

FT realised that we need to include the hackage package
maintainership in the checklists.  So he will fix that :)


## Next SRT meeting

It is the summer holidays (north of the Equator).  Skip it
for all?
