``` toml
[advisory]
cwe = [427]
date = 2025-11-14T12:58:06Z
id = "HSEC-2025-0005"
keywords = ["hackage", "supply-chain", "historical"]
modified = 2025-11-14T12:58:06Z

[[affected]]
cvss = "CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:N/I:H/A:N"
package = "cabal-install"

[[affected.versions]]
fixed = "3.4.0.0"
introduced = "1.0.0.0"

[[references]]
type = "REPORT"
url = "https://frasertweedale.github.io/blog-fp/posts/2021-02-12-haskell-dependency-confusion.html"
```

# `cabal-install` dependency confusion

For **cabal-install \< 3.4.0.0** and where multiple repositories are
configured, the resolver picks the highest available version across all
repositories. Where a package is only defined in a private repository,
this behaviour leads to a [*dependency
confusion*](https://frasertweedale.github.io/blog-fp/posts/2021-02-12-haskell-dependency-confusion.html)
supply chain vulnerability. If the private package name becomes known, a
malicious actor can claim the name in the public repository and publish
a malicious version at a higher version number.

Default `cabal-install` configurations that only use the
`hackage.haskell.org` repository are not affected. Configurations that
use curated private repositories **exclusively** are also not affected.

## Mitigations

*cabal-install* version **3.4.0.0** and higher provide an `override`
option in the repository configuration. It marks the associated
repository as canonical for all packages defined in that repository. No
other repositories will be considered. For example:

    -- For packages in repo.example.com,
    -- only versions in repo.example.com are considered
    active-repositories:
      , hackage.haskell.org
      , repo.example.com:override

Users and organisations using private repositories that contain private
packages in addition to public repositories **MUST** use the `override`
option to prevent dependency confusion attacks.

Alternatively, projects and organisations can run a private instance of
*hackage-server* and carefully curate and review its contents. Using
that instance exclusively defeats supply chain attacks including
*dependency confusion*. For *cabal-install \< 3.4* and where using
multiple repositories, this is the only effective mitigation against
dependency confusion attacks.
